---
date: 2023-03-26
---

## Motivation

I'm questioning if I should release a nuget package for this project.
I want to enumerate tasks and considerations before releasing an MVP.

I probably answered some of these questions before, but unfortunately did not keep my Zen10 notes.


## TODO

- [ ] Consider the namespacing
  - [x] how likely is it I'd expand the strong typing to other namespaces?
  - [x] Consider experience of simultaneously using strong and stringly typed targets
- [x] Consider potential existing features (notably `?` and `?<-` operators that allow tokens instead of strings) 
- [ ] consider repository naming
- [ ] Add nuget meta
- [ ] release!


## Namespacing & Modules

Modules
- OPT:`Target.create` and `StrongTarget.create` 
  - reads well. I'd say better than `Target.def` which is semantically ambiguous with `Target.create`
- OPT: `Strong.Targets.create`
  - creates a more consistent experience if I expand more namespaces and allows the same Targets module
    - The paths would get pretty long though if 
  - CON: Sharing the targets module creates conflicts if the original and strong packages are used simultaneously

Q: Mimicked names or not?
- Mimicking the function and module names used in Fake itself has some tradeoffs. 
  - Pro: easy to guess what the equivalent strong method is
  - CON: more conflicts and potentially long disambiguation if strong and loose approaches used simultaneously
  - CON: harder to tell which approach is being used at a glace
- I really need to see how probable it is i'd ever expand to more modules

Namespaces
- OPT: `Fake.StrongTargets` and `Fake.StrongTargets.Operators`
  - This seems most intuitive if I only plan to support targets long term
- OPT: `Fake.Core.Targets.Strong` and `Fake.Core.TargetOperators.Strong`. If I extend a lot of namespaces that just appending to that path would make for easy migrations but it does seem a bit confusing since it portrays the namespaces as part
- OPT: `Fake.Strong.Targets` and `Fake.Strong.TargetOperators`
  - sets a more intuitive patter if I expand to more namespaces
    - Strong namespaces would be the old path with strong instead of core or strong added
  - Alt: similar to how they handle core, I could have `Fake.Strong` import the targets and `Fake.Strong.TargetOperators`
- OPT: `StrongFake`
  - this way there is no conditionals in changing the names. It's just add strong at the beginning
    - i.e `StrongFake.Core` and `StrongFake.Core.TargetOperators`
  - This makes sense if I'd expand, but is less intuitive if I only support targets
  - modules could look like `StrongFake.Target.create`. That's relatively compact even if we need disambiguation but 

Q: Will I ever wrap modules other than targets?
- Q: Are there other modules working on registered references?
  - globbing -> no, takes strings and returns a globbing type
  - dotnet cli -> nope, these are just wrappers to commandline actions
     - nuget and many other actions are similar
  - versioning -> well typed
  - cli args -> can just use the library I made for System.Commandline or I'd need to make some heavier changes to targets 
     - really, I'd probably be creating a whole new targets if I wanted to define arguments as part of the target
  - A: It seems only targets is probably the only modules I'll wrap for strong typing
    - I think targets are unique in this way because they are the top-level registration for fake
  
Q: Which namespace and module naming option?
- Based on the fact that This will likely only apply to target, I think I should optimize for very clear semantics around targets and not worry about extensibility of the naming pattern
- `Fake.StrongTargets` seems like the most immediately descriptive namespace
  - then `Fake.StrongTargets.Operators`
- Module?
  - OPT: `StrongTarget.method`
    - they plays well alongside normal targets
    - implies that there is a separate target type, which isn't true...
  - OPT: `Target.def`
    - I'm realizing that def is really the only really different method. All of my method operate on the already provided Target class
      - Therefore, I think `Target.dependsOn` makes the most sense to exist on Target since it is an operation on target
      - The counter argument is that the most consistent way for `Target.dependsOn` to work with the base library would be to pass it the string identifiers of each target...
      - Hmm. This isn't quite true. The run methods are also different, but it would be easy to use the built-in ones just by `Target.run foo.Name`
  - operators will still be rough to use side-by-side, but I like my descriptive methods better anyway
- OPT: `TargetRef.methodName`
  - PRO: still pretty short. 
  - PRO: Not going to conflict with main module. 
  - PRO: Implies we're working on a target references
    - it could also be misconstrued as a separate type called TargetRef
  - CON: Doesn't match library naming
- I think I'm agonizing over this too much. I should just get it out there and use it.
- A: I think I'll use `Fake.StrongTargets` and `StrongTarget.methodName` for now because it's simple and doesn't cause conflicts. It's easy to inspect the types if they're unsure. 


Q: Existing operators (`?` and `?<-`)?
- These appear to not be used in the fake codebase
- They are very lightly documented and appear to just apply arguments to an arbitrary function 
  - I can't seem to figure out how they'd be used

Q: Should I try contributing to the core library?
- eh. I think it should be proved out separately first. Easier to iterate that way

Q: If I did add it to the core library. how would I approach it?
- opt: create a sub-module of Target like `Target.ByReference.create` and `Target.ByReference.run`
  - I rather like that. It reads well even if it is a bit long
  - maybe `Target.ByRef.run`
  - Hmm. It makes less sense with create...
  - Users can always alias if they want to
  - !!! There is precedence for this kind of pattern `Target.WithContext.runOrDefault`
    - This maybe leans me to a namespace like `Fake.TargetByRef` and `Target.ByRef.create` or `Target.ByRef.run`
- OPT: Return a ref from the main create method, then just add the other methods
  - con: users will need to assign their targets or ignore the value. This has a high impact on existing users


NOTE: I must not have used the project-based approach at Imperfect. It makes run by reference a bit more awkward because we'd have to stuff
all our target definitions in the main method. Main has to run before the definitions or there won't be the implicit context necessary to create targets.
- This is another reason separating side-effects from definitions would be nice. Then we could define the targets without worrying about order and only register the targets later
- maybe we could return the default target from the `initializeTargets` method...


Hmm. StrongTargets maybe isn't the right package name anymore. 
- OPT: `Fake.TargetRefs` ... doesn't tell me the essence at a glance unless I already know it
- OPT: `Fake.TargetsByReference` ... is better but pretty long
- I'll just stick with StrongTargets. I think it makes sense


## Declarative Targets

This is actually more possible than I thought. Target is a record type and the registration done by create is an internal add to the TargetContext.

[How create works](https://github.com/fsprojects/FAKE/blob/13e30330cae0597aed6154a95a06d21716b18de3/src/app/Fake.Core.Target/Target.fs#L560)

The main problem here is that I would have to depend on internal knowledge of how Fake works. It's all build on top of FakeVar values that I think I could access,
but I'd be depending on string names to access fake-internal values.

If I contribute directly to fake, it would be much easier to create a Target.register function that uses the internal methods.
Really, I would just need to call addTarget and maybe default some values
- actually, addTarget depends on a separate `InternalTarget` type
   - It looks like `Target` contains all the publically required info, so I could just map Target to InternalTarget with defaults like are used in `addTargetWithDependencies`

Something like 

```fsharp
module Target = 
    module Builder =
        
        let register target =
            let internalTarget =
                { Name = target.Name
                  Dependencies = target.Dependencies
                  SoftDependencies = target.SoftDependencies
                  Description = target.Description |> (Option.orElse getLastDescription ())
                  Function = target.Function 
                  Declaration = getDeclaration ()
                  DefinitionOrder = getTargetDict().Count }

            addTarget internalTarget target.Name

        // always start with at least a name
        let fromName name = {
            Name = name
            // other defaults
        }
        let dependsOn deps target = {target with Dependencies = deps |> List.map getName} 
        // other helper methods to set values
```

This kind of approach allows you to separate declaration and registration, but it also allows all kinds of custom flows.
- You can still set different dependency trees based on conditionals
- you might operate on your targets in lists
    - like creating groups that have shared dependencies then adding the dependencies using map
    - wrap target functions with cross-cutting behavior decorators